I'm not really into swearing on my
channel but I think there's no better
contemporary expression for being
indifferent towards what people think
about you then the words I don't give of
the problem is that not giving up isn't
always a good idea in many cases it's
much better to care so what's the best
way to do it in this video I will give
you a stoic perspective on not giving up
and share some ideas on how to practice
it
[Music]
first of all Thank You Sabrina for your
generous PayPal donation very much
appreciate it also I would like to thank
Tom Jacob and Gaurav for being so
charitable I promise that I will use
your donations for a good cause
now let's dive in in my core video about
stoic exercises for inner peace I
briefly talked about eating like a pig
in public as a practice to let go of the
in my opinion over inflated concerns
about the opinions of other people this
deep desire to fit in probably has its
roots in the human survival instinct
because in the past one's life dependent
on being part of the tribe I believe
that fitting in still has many benefits
these days and that's why people wanted
so much in my teens and 20s
being part of a certain group was a
doorway to loads of fun parties and most
importantly dating opportunities I think
it's still the case in adulthood that
dating opportunities are more abundant
when you have access to an extensive
social life another benefit is that
being part of a group means that most of
the times you also have a support
network at your disposal that can assist
you with many things from fixing the
sink to finding a job to emotional care
in times of hardship the downside of
fitting in is that it comes with a price
and even though it's great to be part of
a group we do not need it for survival
anymore nor is it required to be liked
by people on the streets or
acquaintances we have connected with on
social media from a stoic perspective
what people think about us
is not in our control and what's not in
our control is secondary and therefore
not worthy of worrying about a good
reputation as well as the ability to fit
in is a preferred indifferent it's nice
to have but not necessary to live a good
life what is necessary is living
virtuously so it makes perfect sense to
stop giving about things that are
secondary that prevent us from acting
from a place of courage wisdom
moderation and
justise stoic philosopher Epictetus
states that we should be willing to
sacrifice our reputation to reach higher
goals like tranquility I quote you must
watch you must labor you must get the
better of certain appetites must quit
your acquaintances be despised by your
servant be laughed at by those you meet
come off worse than others in everything
in magister C's in honors in Court of
Judicature when you have considered all
these things round approach if you
please if by parting with them you have
a mind to purchase equanimity freedom
and tranquillity end quote
so how can we do this there are several
exercises to become more familiar with
situations in which people judge us
negatively and even socially ostracized
us the goal of these exercises is to
build first-hand experience that being
disliked is not the end of the world
usually this realization comes with age
but if you're someone who is overly
concerned by the opinions of others
these exercises might benefit you
however they could also evoke some
resistance from your surroundings which
means that you are doing a good job
compared with going to the gym
resistance is necessary for improvement
here we go one look terrible in public
most of the time when I am out for
grocery shopping I just look terrible
also I look kind of crappy in these
videos and even got a comment on this
does this obstruct me in doing the
things I want to do not at all the idea
behind this exercise is that many people
aren't comfortable with going out
without looking near perfect some people
spend hours in front of the mirror just
to go to the supermarket please note
that looking terrible can have
consequences in university I often
attended classes wearing pajama trousers
and flip-flops
this didn't keep me from studying
however it can lead to people taking you
less seriously which might obstruct your
goals also I wouldn't recommend to do
this on a work floor if you want to keep
your job what we can learn however is
that looking terrible in public isn't
so bad as we think we might get some
looks and giggles but these don't hurt
today
simply put caring less about looks saves
time and energy to say no to social
events some people have such abandonment
issues that they are terrified of
cancelling and social events just out of
fear that people will leave them this
happens sometimes but most of the time
it doesn't and if it does happen well
it's not the end of the world
the most important factor is that we
don't let the fear of abandonment lead
our lives from a stoic point of view
social events should be handled as
secondary and should not obstruct virtue
by saying no more often we will grow
more independence from our social
circles and learn that life is fine if
we put ourselves first why worry about
what people think about it it's none of
our business anyway 3 do the opposite of
what everyone else does with groups
comes peer pressure we often see that
people tend to act in the same way they
follow the same fashion share similar
interests and similar views and
basically adjust their behavior to fit
in if you're part of a group a way to
counter-attack such herd behavior is
doing the direct opposite if everyone
wears sneakers wear loafers if everyone
orders beer order a soda if everyone
gossips about a particular person don't
participate instead change the subject
gossiping is nasty behavior anyway and
epictetus would agree if you are able
then by our own conversation bring over
that of your company to proper subjects
but if you happen to be taken among
strangers be silent and quote personally
I've always been a nonconformist hence
the name of this channel sometimes I was
forced to because the group didn't
accept me sometimes I chose to
deliberately it's a solitary path but at
the same time I don't pay the price of
conformity which grants me a lot more
freedom in almost all areas of life
given less to buy the right things gives
us more time and energy to focus on what
truly matters
thank you for watching
[Applause]
[Music]